[petervanderdoes]: https://github.com/petervanderdoes "Peter van der Does on github"
[bloveridge]:  https://github.com/bloveridge "Ben Loveridge on github"
[memleak]: https://github.com/memleak/
[sinbad]: https://github.com/sinbad
[bloomonkey]: https://github.com/bloomonkey
[mallamanis]: https://github.com/mallamanis
[kperi]: https://github.com/kperi
[gvangool]: https://github.com/gvangool
[baby-gnu]: https://github.com/baby-gnu
[pcragone]: https://github.com/pcragone
[mykehsd]: https://github.com/mykehsd

# Changelog

#### 1.1.0
[Peter van der Does][petervanderdoes]
* Bugfix: feature finish does double merge when using squash option.

* Add the ability to keep/delete local/remote branches on finish.  
  When finishing a release/hotfix/feature you now can keep/delete the 
  local/remote release/hotfix/feature branch.

* New command: git flow release branch  
  With this command you can directly release a given branch. There is no need 
  to start a new release and finish it. You can not use this command on the 
  git-flow branches feature/hotfix/release/support.
  
* Do not display object fetch summary if flag was not set.  
  Thanks to [Daniel Dehennin][baby-gnu].
  
* Bugfix: Checking if branch exists will fail for remote branches.

* Make die output consistent for each die case.

* Bugfix: When running git flow init an error message pops up.

* Show correct help for subactions.  
  When requesting help with -h for the subactions, the help would show the 
  incorrect command line.
  
* Support reading the tag message from a file in release/hotfix finish.  
  Add the option -f,--messagefile to release and hotfix finish. Thanks to 
  [Steve Streeting][sinbad] for the original coding.
  
* Bugfix: git_current_branch fails for git prior 1.7.10.  
  git symbolic-ref does not have the --short option prior to version 1.7.10.
  Bug found by [Daniel Dehennin][baby-gnu].
  
* Clean up code.  
  Remove all porcelain commands.    
  Refactor code.
  
* Improve the back-merge functionality.  
  Adds an command line option (-b), which the user can utilize if the user
  doesn't want to back-merge but rather merge the release branch into
  develop.
  
* Add the sub-action delete to sub-commands feature, release and hotfix.    
  The sub-commands feature, release and hotfix now have a new sub-action, 
  delete. With that action you can delete the branches, locally and remote.
  The action has two options, -f and -r. With -f you can force the deletion,
  even when the to be deleted branch was not merged yet. With -r the remote 
  branch will also be deleted.

[Daniel Dehennin][baby-gnu]
* Bugfix: release/feature/hotfix start -F fails.  
  Usage of positional parameters requires to eval ${FLAGS_ARGV}. The "eval set" 
  in function call does not propagate to the caller.
  
* Accept tags as base for hotfix/release/support start.  
  Commit pointed by tags are reachable with ^0\[1\].
  
* Check for parameter existence for branch and tag existence helpers.

* Do not finish hotfixes if they have no commits.  
  A hotfix branch must have some commits and be ahead of master.
  
* Bugfix: When running git flow version an error message pops up.

* Reorder fetch and sanity checks.  
  When a user requests a fetch for git flow {feature|hotfix|support} start, do 
  this before some sanity checks to avoid any conflict in branch names 
  and/or version.
  
* Fix flag test in cmd_delete().

[Myke Hines][mykehsd]
* Feature and Release squashing options.  
  This allows a -S option to both feature and releasing finishing actions so 
  that developers can squash commits into one large one.

[Peter Ragone][pcragone]
* Add init to git-flow-{feature,release,hotfix,support}.   
  Fixes the relatively minor issue where 'git flow subcommand help' 
  gives "Not a gitflow-enabled repo yet".
  
* Special thanks to the following individual:    
  [Gert Van Gool][gvangool]
  
#### 1.0-avh
[Peter van der Does][petervanderdoes]

* Remove trailing whitespace.

* Updated from latest develop branch from nvie.    
  Some features were still missing.
  
* Remove the submodule shFlags.  
  Instead of the submodule we'll just use the file.
  
* When finishing a release or hotfix, use tag for back-merging if available.    
  When a release or hotfix branch is tagged, the tag is never merged into the
  develop branch, it is preferable to have the tag in the develop branch as
  well, for use with git describe for example.
  
* Update license info.

* Bugfix: Typo when pulling existing feature from remote.Thanks to [John Harrison][bloomonkey],  [Miltos][mallamanis], [Kostas][kperi] and [memleak][memleak].

* Wrong variable names in the bare-bones.  
  The wrong variable name is set, this can lead to confusing on what's 
  passed to the script,

[Steve Streeting][sinbad]
* Fixes the suggested name for the integration branch.    
  When git init -d is executed on a repo with multiple branches, the
  suggested name for the integration branch could possibly be the same name
  that was already selected for the production release branch.  
  If no suggested name is determined the suggested name remains empty which
  leads to all sorts of other problems.

#### 0.4.2-avh1
[Peter van der Does][petervanderdoes]

* Start of the git flow AVH release.

* Adds support for the version filter in the commands `git flow release start`
and `git flow hotfix start`

* Adds support for hooks in various commands.

[Ben Loveridge][bloveridge]

* Fix usage of shFlags on FreeBSD

#### 0.4.2
Release date: not yet

* `git flow init` now detects situations where origin already has gitflow
  branches set up, and behaves accordingly (thanks Emre Berge Ergenekon).

* `git flow feature finish` can now be called without a feature branch
  name(prefix) argument and will finish the current branch, if on any.

* `git flow feature pull` now has a `-r` flag, to support `pull --rebase`
  semantics (thanks Vedang Manerikar).

* Various minor bug fixes related to internal argument passing.

* Improved some documentation.

* Better support for Windows and BSD users.

* Add package installer for the Windows platform.

#### 0.4.1
Release date: **2011/02/04**

* New option `-d` added to `git flow init`, to initialize with defaults without
  asking for input interactively.  Ideal for creating git-flow enabled repos in
  custom scripts.

* The parsing issues related to git-flow feature's flags are now dealt with on
  all known platforms.  (Fixed #54, #62, #86, #97)

* Escape queries for detecting branch/tag names.  (Fixed #91)


#### 0.4
Release date: **2010/10/18**

* The flag parsing issues of git-flow subcommands are solved for most
  platforms.

* `git flow {feature,hotfix,release} finish` now takes a `-k` flag, to keep the
  branch around after finishing.

* `git flow release finish` takes a `-n` flag, to skip tagging.

* For consistency, `git flow {release,hotfix}` now, too, have a `publish` and
  `track` subcommand, just like `feature`.

* Various minor fixes.


#### 0.3
Release date: **2010/07/22**

* New subcommands for `git flow feature`:
  - **checkout**:
    For easily checking out features by their short name.  Even allows
    unique prefixes as arguments (see below).

  - **pull**:
    This subcommand allows you to painlessly work on a feature branch
    together with another peer.  This is especially valuable for doing
    peer reviews of other people's code.  For more detailed info, see the
    [commit log][1].

* Easier addressing of branch names by using name prefixes.
  For example, when using:

    git flow feature finish fo

  this automatically finishes the feature branch `foobar` if that's the only
  feature branch name starting with `fo`.

* No force flag anymore for new feature branches
  `git flow feature start` lost its `-f` (force) flag.  You now don't
  have to be in a clean repo anymore to start a new feature branch. This
  avoids the manual `git stash`, `git flow feature start`, `git stash
  pop` cycle.

* You can use `git-flow` in stand-alone repo's now.
  This means it does not assume you have an `origin` repository.
  (Thanks [Mark][2].)

* No commands fetch from `origin` by default anymore.
  There were some issues related to disabling this flag on some platforms.

* Init guesses branch names you may want to use for `develop` and `master`.

* Added super-easy installation script. (Thanks [Rick][3].)

* Added BSD license.

[1]: http://github.com/nvie/gitflow/commit/f68d405cc3a11e9df3671f567658a6ab6ed8e0a1
[2]: http://github.com/talios
[3]: http://github.com/rickosborne

#####Older versions
No change history is recorded for pre-0.3 releases.

#### Glossary
* RFC: Request For Change. This indicates a new or improved function requested
by one or more users.
